This project builds a simple system to identify filenames and timecodes containing tortoises out of a large set of videos.  The project uses zero-shot approaches, using the [OpenCLIP](https://github.com/mlfoundations/open_clip).  

The SingleImageTest folder contains code and individual images to test specific aspects of the code and OpenCLIP models (and the `Test.py` file has notes on the three files I tested).  `nightVectorID.py` is used to identify a compensation factor needed to mitigate strange behavior from the less powerful models when given night camera images.  Finally, `process.py` is the main file.  Simple variables at the top of the program allow altering the source directory for the videos, the video frame sampling interval, whether identified frames will be saved as training data, and whether a preview of frames will be shown while the data is being processed.

Project setup is very simple.  I would recommend creating a conda environment for simplicity, but after that, only `pip install -r requirements.txt` is all that is necessary for package installation.  Finally, `python3 process.py` can run the project.  File names, timecodes, and night or day ("N" or "D") information will be saved to `tortoise_sightings.txt`, and, if enabled, training data will be saved in a labeled folder structure.

NOTE: I have only tested the code with Python 3.13+.  The core code should work with older Python versions, but I know that at least the preferred OpenCLIP model (PE-Core-bigG-14-448) cannot load on some older versions.  A cursory glance suggests that versions as old as 3.9 should work, but I have not verified that.
